# Binary Reverse Engineering with Crackmes

### EZCrackMe1

For `ezcrackme1`, I used uftrace to figure out the password. First, I ran the program and saw that it wants the user to run it, then be prompted for input. Afterwards, it seems to compare it to a secret key and output whether you guessed right or not. Then, I ran it using uftrace to see what functions it was using and what it was doing at each step. After running it with uftrace, I see that after it takes my input, it compares my input to the string "picklecucumberl337". After running the program and using this phrase as the input I was able to successfully crack the code.

Thus, the password is "picklecucumberl337" and is able to be outputted using the program `ezAnswers.py`.

### EZCrackMe2

For `ezcrackme2`, I used strings to try cracking it. Firstly, I ran the program and saw that it ran similar to `ezcrackme1` and had the user run it, then input a phrase. So, after seeing this I ran strings on it this time and saw some interesting output, one of which was the phrase "artificialtree" before the win text. So, I decided to try this phrase as the input and sure enough, it proved to be the password.

Thus, the password is "artificialtree" and is able to be outputted using the program `ezAnswers.py`.

### EZCrackMe3

For `ezcrackme3`, both uftrace and strings proved to be inefficient in finding the answer, so I turned to using Ghidra. After running the program and seeing that it ran the same as the previous two, I decided to try uftrace. Through seeing this, I saw the phrase "strawberry" being compared with our input so I decided to try it and, sadly, it was not the correct input. So, I decided to use strings to see if I could find anything else. After running strings on the program, I found "kiwi" posted in there as well, and after trying that phrase it still did not work. Lastly, I ran Ghidra on it to see exactly what was happening. Using Ghidra, I was able to trace that it combines the strings "strawberry" and "kiwi" together, and after trying the phrase "strawberrykiwi" I was able to successfully crack the code.

Thus, the password is "strawberrykiwi" and is able to be outputted using the program `ezAnswers.py`.

### ControlFlow1

For `control_flow_1`, I used Ghidra to figure out how it worked. First, we look into the `main` function. In here, we see that the input must be one string and that it must have at least 16 characters. After this check, we go to `rock`. In here, we see that the fourth character of our input must be equal to '2'. After this is checked and resolved, we move on to `paper`. In `paper`, we see that we first subtract 0x25U from the eighth element of our string. Then, we check to see if our new value is below 0x2e. If it is, then we move on into our if statement. In here, we left shift 1 by the bitwise AND of our new value after subtraction and 0x3f. After we do this, we take the bitwise AND of our new value and 1 and, if it comes out as 1, we move on to `scissors`. However, we noticed that the only way to have this outcome would to have the eighth value be equal to '%' so that when we do the subtraction in the beginning, the result is 0. Now, onto `scissors`. In this function, we see that the only constraint we have is that the first element of our string must be equal to 0x41, or in ASCII, 'A'. After this is true, we can move on to `lizard`. In here, we see a switch function checking the value of the second element of our string. We see that to move on to `spock`, we need this element to be equal to '6'. Lastly, we move into `spock` and see another switch case, this time checking the 16th element. For us to get through this switch, we need our value to be equal to '*' to get to the `win` function. Once we do this, we enter the `win` function and see that we have successfully cracked this function.

If you run the program `CF1.py`, it will give you a proper key you can use for this crackme that is 16 characters long and follows the rules listed above.

### ControlFlow2

For `control_flow_2`, I used Ghidra to figure out how it worked. First, we look into the `main` function. In here, we see that the input must be one string and that it must have at least 16 characters. After this check, we go to `rock`. In here, we see that the sixth character of our input must be equal to 'Y'. After this is checked and resolved, we move on to `paper`. In `paper`, we see that we first subtract 0x35U from the ninth element of our string. Then, we check to see if our new value is below 0x38. If it is, then we move on into our if statement. In here, we left shift 1 by the bitwise AND of our new value after subtraction and 0x3f. After we do this, we take the bitwise AND of our new value and 1 and, if it comes out as 1, we move on to `scissors`. However, we noticed that the only way to have this outcome would to have the ninth value be equal to '#' so that when we do the subtraction in the beginning, the result is 0. Now, onto `scissors`. In this function, we see that the only constraint we have is that the 11th element of our string must be equal to 0x41, or in ASCII, 'A'. After this is true, we can move on to `lizard`. In here, we see a switch function checking the value of the 14th element of our string. We see that to move on to `spock`, we need this element to be equal to '6'. Lastly, we move into `spock` and see another switch case, this time checking the 12th element. For us to get through this switch, we need our value to be equal to '*' to get to the `win` function. Once we do this, we enter the `win` function and see that we have successfully cracked this function.

If you run the program `CF2.py`, it will give you a proper key you can use for this crackme that is 16 characters long and follows the rules listed above.

### ControlFlow3

For `control_flow_3`, I utilized Ghidra to navigate the code and figure out how to get to our sink. When first looking at the code, we first navigate ourselves to `main`. Within `main` we see that we must have our input in the command line when running our program and that it must be one long string. After this is checked, we see that our string must also be at least 16 characters long or else we fail. After both these checks are passed, we move on to the first function of this maze: `rock`. Within this function, we see that we are to add elements 2 and 4 together, then subtract element 6 from the result. Afterwards, we check to see if this value is equal to the 7th element of our string and, if it is, we can move on to `paper`. Once we pass on into `paper`, we see that now we must have the bitwise OR of elements 7 and 8 be less than 3 to move on to the next part. Once this part is true, we pass into `scissors`. `Scissors` is easy, as it only requires that elements 11 and 13 be equal to one another, and once this is true, we pass into `lizard`. Within this function, we must make sure that the XOR of elements 9 and 8 is not less than 4 otherwise we fail. If this requirement is met, then we pass the if statement and go into the function `spock`. For this one, we must first make sure that elements 9 and 10 are not equal to one another otherwise we fail. Afterwards, we must make sure that the XOR of elements 13, 9, and 10 are not equal to the result of the comparison of our 11th element being less than 3, which should always result in false, or 0. If the XOR does not equal 0, then we finally move on to the function `win`. If we reach this function, then we have successfully navigated through the maze and reached our sink.

If you run the program `CF3.py`, it will give you a proper key you can use for this crackme that is 16 characters long and follows the rules listed above. To solve it, I first try solving the problem with `rock` by calling my function with the same name. After this has ran and found a pair of characters that fit the rules, it moves on to `paper`. Within paper I do the same, run until I find a list of characters that fit the rule. Then, I move on to `spock`, since `spock` relies on the values created from other functions. This runs, running `scissors` and `lizard` every time it fails to try finding values that fit all the requirements above. Once this is found, it will output our string to the user.